README.md, before:

<div align="center">
  <!-- <img src="src/images/" height="80" /> -->
  <h1 align="center"><a href="https://radverkehrsatlas.de/">radverkehrsatlas.de</a> (Beta)</h1>
</div>

# About

**Radverkehrsatlas** provides access to **bicycle infrastructure** data from [**OpenStreetMap** (OSM)](https://www.openstreetmap.org) for administrative staff. The OSM data is processed and then visualized in multiple map views. The integrated verification process provides a way for administrations to check the given data and provide feedback – internally and to the community. Based on this data, administrations can plan new bike lanes and networks and maintain existing infrastrucutre.

Please [contact FixMyCity GmbH to learn more](https://www.fixmycity.de/radverkehrsatlas).

This project is split into two major parts. The [processing](#processing) of OpenStreetMap data and the [frontend](#frontend) for the visualization and Web GIS.

# Contribute

If you find any bugs, feel free to open an issue in this repository.

# Frontend

The frontend visualizes our processed data it also provides options to annotate and export the data.

## Develop

- Framework: [NextJS](https://nextjs.org/) with [BlitzJS](https://blitzjs.com/)
- ORM: [Prisma](https://blitzjs.com/docs/cli-prisma)
- Styling: [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/)

For VS Code we [recommended](.vscode/extensions.json) some extensions.

To test the login, you need to setup your own OSM OAuth 2-Application, see [osm-auth](https://github.com/osmlab/osm-auth#registering-an-application) and [update the credentials](/.env.example).

### Testing the production bundle

1. Make sure `npm run dev` works as expected. This will make sure all packages are patched.
2. Create a `.env.production.local` with settings like
   ```
   NEXT_PUBLIC_APP_ORIGIN=http://127.0.0.1:3000
   NEXT_PUBLIC_APP_ENV='staging' # 'staging', 'production'
   ```
3. Run `npm run build` and `npm run start` to test the production bundle

### NextJS tips

- Favicons:
  `icon.svg` https://nextjs.org/docs/app/api-reference/file-conventions/metadata/app-icons
  Generator for `favicon.ico` https://realfavicongenerator.net/

## Helper scripts

All [helper scripts](./app/scripts) run with [bun](https://bun.sh/). 

- **Update mapbox styles** – See [/scripts/MapboxStyles/README.md](./scripts/MapboxStyles/README.md) on how to fetch updated style definitions from Mapbox.
- **Update regional masks** – See [/scripts/RegionalMasks/README.md](./scripts/RegionalMasks/README.md) on how to fetch updated the regional mask data.
- **Update datasets** – See [/datasets/README.md](./datasets/README.md) on how to process and update external datasets.

## License

This project is licensed under the AGPL-3.0 License - see the [LICENSE.md](LICENSE.md) file for more information.
It contains dependencies which have different Licenses, see [`package.json`](./package.json).

# Processing

The processing downloads the OpenStreetMap (OSM) data, filters and processes it into a PostgreSQL/PostGIS database which are then made available as vector tiles with [`martin`](https://github.com/maplibre/martin).
The data gets selected and optimized to make planning of bicycle infrastructure easier.

## Server

- Production Tiles https://tiles.radverkehrsatlas.de/
- Staging Tiles https://staging-tiles.radverkehrsatlas.de/
- Development Tiles http://localhost:7800/

## Data

### Freshness of source data

We use the [public Germany export from Geofabrik](https://download.geofabrik.de/europe/germany.html) which includes OSM Data up until ~20:00 h of the previous day. All processing is done on this dataset.

### Freshness of processed data

- Data is processed every day ([cron job definition](/.github/workflows/generate-tiles.yml#L3-L6))
- Data is processed on every deploy/release
- Data can be processed manually [via Github Actions ("Run workflow > from Branch: `main`")](https://github.com/FixMyBerlin/atlas-geo/actions/workflows/generate-tiles.yml).

### Deployment

1. First https://github.com/FixMyBerlin/atlas-app/actions runs.
2. Server (IONOS) runs the processing one table at a time.
   The whole processing takes about 1.5 h. See [`run.sh`](processing/run.sh) for details.

**Skip CI Actions:**

ATM, the CI runs on every commit. To skip commits add `[skip actions]` to the commit message. This is a [default behaviour](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/managing-workflow-runs/skipping-workflow-runs) of Github Actions.

## Development

### Initial setup

1. First, create a `.env` file. You can use the `.env.example` file as a template.
2. Follow "Run the whole system"

### Run the whole system

The workflow is…

1. Edit the files locally

2. Rebuild and restart everything

   ```sh
   docker compose build && docker compose up
   ```

3. Inspect the new results, see "Inspect changes"

> **Note**
> Learn more about the file/folder-structure and coding patterns in [`processing/topics/README.md`](/processing/topics/README.md)

### Processing: Run changes only

Whenever `SKIP_DOWNLOAD=1` is active we store a hash of all `.lua` and `.sql` per folder.
During [`run-5-process.sh`](processing/run-5-process.sh) we only run code if the hash has changed.
If any helper in (`topics/helper`)[processing/topics/helper] changed, we rerun everything.

Whenever we talk about `hash`es in this code, this feature is referenced.

#### Force rerun

Whenever you need to force a rerun, open [any lua helper](./processing/topics/helper/Set.lua) and add a temporary code comment, save and restart the processing. Use the helper `run-full.sh` to do this automatically.

### Processing: Inspect changes

Whenever `SKIP_DOWNLOAD=1` and `COMPUTE_DIFFS=1`, the system will create `<tablename>_diff` tables that contain only changed entries.

It will compare the `tags` column to the previous run.

Whenever we talk about `diff`s in this code, this feature is referenced.

#### Reference

- With `FREEZE_DATA=0` you see the changes to the last run on every run
- With `FREEZE_DATA=1` you see the changes to the last reference-run, allowing you to compare your changes to a certain version of your data. The reference will be the last time you ran with `FREEZE_DATA=0`. In this case the system will **not** update the `<tablename>_diff` tables. This flag will be ignored if `COMPUTE_DIFFS=0`.

Use `run-full.sh` to toggle `FREEZE_DATA` and force a full rerun for a fresh reference.

#### `age` diffs

If `age` diffs show up, you need to create a fresh reference run of all the data.
You may use `run-full.sh` to set `FREEZE_DATA=0` and modify the helper folder to trigger a full rerun.

### Process only a single object

For the development process it's often useful to run the processing on a single object.
For that you can specify an id (list) as `ID_FILTER` in the [`processing/run-3-filter.sh`](/processing/run-3-filter.sh).
See the [osmium-docs](https://docs.osmcode.org/osmium/latest/osmium-getid.html) for more information.

# 💛 Thanks to

**Processing:**

- Thank you [osm2pgsql](https://osm2pgsql.org/)
- Thank you [Geofabrik](https://download.geofabrik.de/)

The first iteration of the processing pipeline was inspired by [gislars/osm-parking-processing](https://github.com/gislars/osm-parking-processing)

**Frontend:**

- Thank you [BlitzJS](https://blitzjs.com/) and [NextJS](https://nextjs.org/)
- Thank you [next-usequerystate](https://github.com/47ng/next-usequerystate/)
- Thank you [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/), [Tailwind UI](https://tailwindui.com/) and [Headless UI](https://headlessui.com/)

Commit message:

update readme: specify the directory in which to run the npm commands

README.md, after:

<div align="center">
  <!-- <img src="src/images/" height="80" /> -->
  <h1 align="center"><a href="https://radverkehrsatlas.de/">radverkehrsatlas.de</a> (Beta)</h1>
</div>

# About

**Radverkehrsatlas** provides access to **bicycle infrastructure** data from [**OpenStreetMap** (OSM)](https://www.openstreetmap.org) for administrative staff. The OSM data is processed and then visualized in multiple map views. The integrated verification process provides a way for administrations to check the given data and provide feedback – internally and to the community. Based on this data, administrations can plan new bike lanes and networks and maintain existing infrastrucutre.

Please [contact FixMyCity GmbH to learn more](https://www.fixmycity.de/radverkehrsatlas).

This project is split into two major parts. The [processing](#processing) of OpenStreetMap data and the [frontend](#frontend) for the visualization and Web GIS.

# Contribute

If you find any bugs, feel free to open an issue in this repository.

# Frontend

The frontend visualizes our processed data it also provides options to annotate and export the data.

## Develop

- Framework: [NextJS](https://nextjs.org/) with [BlitzJS](https://blitzjs.com/)
- ORM: [Prisma](https://blitzjs.com/docs/cli-prisma)
- Styling: [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/)

For VS Code we [recommended](.vscode/extensions.json) some extensions.

To test the login, you need to setup your own OSM OAuth 2-Application, see [osm-auth](https://github.com/osmlab/osm-auth#registering-an-application) and [update the credentials](/.env.example).

### Testing the production bundle

In the [`app/`](./app/) directory do the following:

1. Make sure `npm run dev` works as expected. This will make sure all packages are patched.
2. Create a `.env.production.local` with settings like
   ```
   NEXT_PUBLIC_APP_ORIGIN=http://127.0.0.1:3000
   NEXT_PUBLIC_APP_ENV='staging' # 'staging', 'production'
   ```
3. Run `npm run build` and `npm run start` to test the production bundle

### NextJS tips

- Favicons:
  `icon.svg` https://nextjs.org/docs/app/api-reference/file-conventions/metadata/app-icons
  Generator for `favicon.ico` https://realfavicongenerator.net/

## Helper scripts

All [helper scripts](./app/scripts) run with [bun](https://bun.sh/).

- **Update mapbox styles** – See [/scripts/MapboxStyles/README.md](./scripts/MapboxStyles/README.md) on how to fetch updated style definitions from Mapbox.
- **Update regional masks** – See [/scripts/RegionalMasks/README.md](./scripts/RegionalMasks/README.md) on how to fetch updated the regional mask data.
- **Update datasets** – See [/datasets/README.md](./datasets/README.md) on how to process and update external datasets.

## License

This project is licensed under the AGPL-3.0 License - see the [LICENSE.md](LICENSE.md) file for more information.
It contains dependencies which have different Licenses, see [`package.json`](./package.json).

# Processing

The processing downloads the OpenStreetMap (OSM) data, filters and processes it into a PostgreSQL/PostGIS database which are then made available as vector tiles with [`martin`](https://github.com/maplibre/martin).
The data gets selected and optimized to make planning of bicycle infrastructure easier.

## Server

- Production Tiles https://tiles.radverkehrsatlas.de/
- Staging Tiles https://staging-tiles.radverkehrsatlas.de/
- Development Tiles http://localhost:7800/

## Data

### Freshness of source data

We use the [public Germany export from Geofabrik](https://download.geofabrik.de/europe/germany.html) which includes OSM Data up until ~20:00 h of the previous day. All processing is done on this dataset.

### Freshness of processed data

- Data is processed every day ([cron job definition](/.github/workflows/generate-tiles.yml#L3-L6))
- Data is processed on every deploy/release
- Data can be processed manually [via Github Actions ("Run workflow > from Branch: `main`")](https://github.com/FixMyBerlin/atlas-geo/actions/workflows/generate-tiles.yml).

### Deployment

1. First https://github.com/FixMyBerlin/atlas-app/actions runs.
2. Server (IONOS) runs the processing one table at a time.
   The whole processing takes about 1.5 h. See [`run.sh`](processing/run.sh) for details.

**Skip CI Actions:**

ATM, the CI runs on every commit. To skip commits add `[skip actions]` to the commit message. This is a [default behaviour](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/managing-workflow-runs/skipping-workflow-runs) of Github Actions.

## Development

### Initial setup

1. First, create a `.env` file. You can use the `.env.example` file as a template.
2. Follow "Run the whole system"

### Run the whole system

The workflow is…

1. Edit the files locally

2. Rebuild and restart everything

   ```sh
   docker compose build && docker compose up
   ```

3. Inspect the new results, see "Inspect changes"

> **Note**
> Learn more about the file/folder-structure and coding patterns in [`processing/topics/README.md`](/processing/topics/README.md)

### Processing: Run changes only

Whenever `SKIP_DOWNLOAD=1` is active we store a hash of all `.lua` and `.sql` per folder.
During [`run-5-process.sh`](processing/run-5-process.sh) we only run code if the hash has changed.
If any helper in (`topics/helper`)[processing/topics/helper] changed, we rerun everything.

Whenever we talk about `hash`es in this code, this feature is referenced.

#### Force rerun

Whenever you need to force a rerun, open [any lua helper](./processing/topics/helper/Set.lua) and add a temporary code comment, save and restart the processing. Use the helper `run-full.sh` to do this automatically.

### Processing: Inspect changes

Whenever `SKIP_DOWNLOAD=1` and `COMPUTE_DIFFS=1`, the system will create `<tablename>_diff` tables that contain only changed entries.

It will compare the `tags` column to the previous run.

Whenever we talk about `diff`s in this code, this feature is referenced.

#### Reference

- With `FREEZE_DATA=0` you see the changes to the last run on every run
- With `FREEZE_DATA=1` you see the changes to the last reference-run, allowing you to compare your changes to a certain version of your data. The reference will be the last time you ran with `FREEZE_DATA=0`. In this case the system will **not** update the `<tablename>_diff` tables. This flag will be ignored if `COMPUTE_DIFFS=0`.

Use `run-full.sh` to toggle `FREEZE_DATA` and force a full rerun for a fresh reference.

#### `age` diffs

If `age` diffs show up, you need to create a fresh reference run of all the data.
You may use `run-full.sh` to set `FREEZE_DATA=0` and modify the helper folder to trigger a full rerun.

### Process only a single object

For the development process it's often useful to run the processing on a single object.
For that you can specify an id (list) as `ID_FILTER` in the [`processing/run-3-filter.sh`](/processing/run-3-filter.sh).
See the [osmium-docs](https://docs.osmcode.org/osmium/latest/osmium-getid.html) for more information.

# 💛 Thanks to

**Processing:**

- Thank you [osm2pgsql](https://osm2pgsql.org/)
- Thank you [Geofabrik](https://download.geofabrik.de/)

The first iteration of the processing pipeline was inspired by [gislars/osm-parking-processing](https://github.com/gislars/osm-parking-processing)

**Frontend:**

- Thank you [BlitzJS](https://blitzjs.com/) and [NextJS](https://nextjs.org/)
- Thank you [next-usequerystate](https://github.com/47ng/next-usequerystate/)
- Thank you [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/), [Tailwind UI](https://tailwindui.com/) and [Headless UI](https://headlessui.com/)
